well technical problems met that the
first part of the briefing from the
health secretary for England Matt
Hancock was not broadcast but we can
bring that to you now the government is
working through our action plan which
aims to save as many lives as possible
by slowing the spread of the virus
protecting the NHS and preventing it
from being overwhelmed our response is
built upon the bedrock of the best
possible scientific and medical advice
so that we can take the right steps at
the right time first by slowing the
spread of the virus across our society
and second by boosting the capacity of
the NHS so that we can always care for
those who fall sick
sadly corona virus continues to spread I
can report that through the government's
ongoing monitoring and testing programme
according to the latest figures a
hundred and ninety five thousand five
hundred and twenty four people have now
been tested for the virus and 47
thousand eight hundred and six have been
tested positive across the UK the number
of people admitted to hospital with
coronavirus symptoms is now sixteen
thousand seven hundred and two and of
those who've contracted the virus 4934
have sadly died we mourn their passing
and we offer our profound sympathies to
their families and friends I've lost two
people that I was fond of so I
understand what a difficult time this is
for the country this evening Her Majesty
the Queen will give a rare formal
address to the nation and I know that
we'll all be watching and listening to
see and hear what she has to say on
behalf of us all I understand that
people are yearning to know how long
this will all last and the answer is
entirely dependent on how much
people follow the rules on social
distancing following these rules is
mission critical if we're to protect the
NHS slow the spread and give the NHS
time to expand capacity and so to save
lives the more people follow the rules
then the faster we will all be through
it so I say this to this small minority
of people who are breaking the rules or
pushing the boundaries you're risking
your own life and the lives of others
and you're making it harder for us all
we've included exercise as one of the
things that you can leave your house to
do because exercise is good for our
physical and our mental health but
please do not bend or break this rule we
can't rule out further steps but I don't
want anyone to think that any changes to
the social distancing rules are imminent
because the vast majority are following
the rules and to you to all those at
home to all those who are following the
rules I want to say thank you on behalf
of us all and especially on behalf of
the doctors nurses and other colleagues
who put their lives on the line to care
for you in the NHS as well as working to
slow the spread of course we are
increasing the capacity of the NHS last
week we saw the completion of the
Nightingale hospital in East London it
was planned and constructed and fully
staffed with in 9 days it was humbling
to see the NHS the military and everyone
involved in its construction pulling
together in this time of need and there
are many more nightingales to come
across our entire united kingdom
including Harrogate Birmingham
Manchester Glasgow Belfast and Cardiff
these new hospitals are on top of the
expansion in critical care across the
NHS there are currently over 2,336 spare
critical care beds for the NHS in
England and over 9,000 ventilators are
now available to NHS coronavirus ents
across the country thanks to the Nash
effort to ramp up capacity 300 new
ventilators arrived this weekend from
China and we've seen UK manufacturers
working at pace to develop new ones of
course hospitals and ventilators are
critical but our NHS is nothing without
the people who work there and it's been
so encouraging to see over 27,000 form a
health care professional signing up to
return to the NHS frontline I don't want
to say a great big thank you to each and
every one of you welcome back and I hope
that many more will sign up in the weeks
ahead this weekend we also have launched
our latest technology a new coronavirus
status checker it asks people who
currently have coronavirus symptoms to
share their experiences to help us in
our fight against the virus and it'll
help make use of this information which
will in turn help us to understand the
disease so we can for instance allocate
resources like oxygen and ventilators
and additional staff to where they're
needed most please do your bit if you
currently have symptoms by going to WWN
HS UK / status checker because the more
people who use it then the better
informed our response will be and the
smart use of data like this and digital
technologies is one of the strongest
bulwarks that we have against
coronavirus because new technologies can
help us to meet these new threats and
allow us to gain the understanding and
the insight that we need to defeat this
virus once and for all technology is one
piece of the jigsaw and an important
piece but ultimately the strongest
weapon in our arsenal is if we join
together in tough times and follow the
rules that have been put in place I like
many of you have young children at home
so I know what a challenge this can be
for families and I really understand how
much everyone wants to enjoy the sunny
weather but the cool thing about
coronavirus is that it thrives on social
contact and the human bonds
that brings so much to life so we must
show our resolve all the things that we
miss right now going to the pub for a
pint with friends or sitting in the park
with a book or hugging a grandchild we
will have these moments again and
they'll mean even more to us but until
then the only way to protect yourselves
your loved ones and your community is to
stay at home protect the NHS and save
lives
[Music]
see the headlines as they happen and
watch BBC news live in the app and get
the full story with BBC decoder UK
forward slash news follow the story for
all the latest with BBC News